
TRENDING:
Where there is a will there is a way essay

IndiaCelebrating.com

    Home
    Festivals
    Events
    Essay
    Speech
    Slogans
    Paragraph
    Articles
    Quotes
    Other Categories

APJ Abdul Kalam Essay

We have provided various essay on APJ Abdul Kalam in order to help students. Now-a-days, essay writing competitions have been very common in the schools and colleges to enhance the skill and knowledge of students about any topic. All the APJ Abdul Kalam essay are written using very simple words under various words limit according to the need and requirement of students. Students can select any of the essays given below according to their class standard:
Essay on APJ Abdul Kalam
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 1 (100 words)

APJ Abdul Kalam is popularly known as Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam. He lives in Indian people’s heart as the Missile Man of India and People’s President. Actually he was a great scientist who invented many new inventions. He was the former President of India who born on 15th of October in 1931 (in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu) however died on 27th of July in 2015 (in Shillong, Meghalaya, India). His father name was Jainulabudeen and mother name was Ashiamma. His full name was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. He never got married to anyone. He was a great man who has been awareded with the awards like Bharat Ratna (in 1997), Padma Vibhushan (in 1990), Padma Bhushan (in 1981), Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration (in 1997), Ramanujan Award (in 2000), King Charles II Medal (in 2007), International von Karman Wings Award (in 2009), Hoover Medal (in 2009), etc.

APJ Abdul Kalam
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 2 (150 words)

Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam was really a true legend for the youngsters of the country. He has inspired the new generation of the country through his whole life, career, workings and writings. He still lives in the heart of Indian people as the People’s President and Missile Man. He was a scientist and an aerospace engineer who closely linked to the India’s missile programme. He later served the country as 11th President of India from 2002 to 2007. The full name of APJ abdul Kalam was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam.

He was born on 15th of October in 1931 at Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu and died on 27th of July in 2015 at Shillong, Meghalaya, India. After his graduation from the Madras Institute of Technology, he joined the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). He has worked under a legendary space scientist, Vikram Ambalal Sarabhai (father of India’s space programme). He later became the project director in 1969 of India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle, SLV-III.
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 3 (200 words)

The full name of Dr. APJ abdul Kalam was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. He is popularly known as the Missile Man of India and People’s President. He was born in a poor Tamil Muslim family on 15th of October in 1931 at Rameshwaram, Ramnad district of Madras presidency under British India (currently in Ramanathapuram District, Tamil Nadu). He was a great scientist who also served the country as the 11th President of India from 2002 to 2007. After completing his term of presidency, he returned to the civilian life of writing, education, and public service. He worked at various chief positions at ISRO and DRDO then became a Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government Of India as a Cabinet Minister.

He has been honored with the honorary doctorates by at least 30 universities as well as three highest civilian awards of the country (Padma Bhushan 1981, Padma Vibhushan 1990 and Bharat Ratna 1997). He was a great personality and inspiration to the youngsters of country who took his last breath at IIM, Meghalaya on 27th of July in 2015 because of the sudden cardiac arrest. He is not present among us physically however his great works and contributions would be with us forever. He has mentioned his dream of making India a developed country in his book “India 2020-A vision for the New Millennium”.
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 4 (250 words)

Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam was a Missile Man of India. He is popularly known as the People’s President of India. His full name was Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. He was a great scientist and 11th President of India. He was born in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu, in a poor Tamil Muslim family on 15th of October in 1931 to the Jainulabudeen and Ashiamma. He started supporting his family financially in his early age. He has completed his graduation from the St Joseph’s College, Tiruchirappalli in 1954 and Aerospace Engineering from the Madras Institute of Technology, Chennai in 1960.

He joined the DRDO (Defense Research and Development Organization) as a scientist where he designed a small helicopter for the Indian Army. He also worked under Dr. Vikram Sarabhai as part of INCOSPAR committee. Later, he joined the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) in 1969 as project director of India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle (SLV-III). Because of his great contributions for the development of ballistic missiles in India, he will be forever known as the “Missile Man of India”. The successful Pokhran-II nuclear tests of 1998 have also involved his important role.

He has been the third President of India who awarded with the Bharat Ratna (first Dr. Sarvapali Radhakrishnan 1954 and second Dr. Zakir Hussain 1963). He has also been awarded with the Padma Bhushan in 1981 and Padma Vibhushan in 1990 for his contributions at ISRO and DRDO as well as the Government of India as a scientific advisor. He has written many books such as Wings of Fire, Ignited Minds, Target 3 Billion in 2011, Turning Points, India 2020, My Journey, etc.
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 5 (300 words)

The full name of APJ Abdul Kalam was Dr. Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam. He has been the luminous star in the Indian history as the Missile Man and People’s President. He was born on 15th of October in 1931 in Tamil Nadu. His life was full of struggle however has been an inspiration to the new generation of India. He was a person who dreamed about India of being a developed country. For which he has quoted that “You have to dream before your dreams can come true”. His immense interest in flight made him able to fulfill his dream of being an Aeronautical Engineering. Instead of being from a poor family, he never discontinued his education. He has completed his graduation in Science from St. Joseph’s College in Tiruchirappalli and Aeronautical Engineering from the Madras Institute of Technology in 1954.

He joined DRDO as a senior scientific assistant in 1958 where a small team, developing a prototype hover- craft, was headed by him. Because of the lack of exciting response from the hovercraft programme, he joined the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). He is widely famous as the “Missile Man of India” as he contributed a lot in developing ballistic missiles and space rocket technology. He was the driving force behind country in developing the defence technologies. His great contributions have brought our country into the group of nuclear nations.

He was a notable scientist and an engineer who also served the country as 11th President from 2002 to 2007. Pokhran-II nuclear test of 1998 also has his dedicated involvement. He was the man of vision and full of ideas who always aimed at development of country. He has highlighted the action plans about country development by 2020 in his book titled as “India-2020”. According to him, the real asset of the country is its youth that’s why he has always motivated and inspired them. He said that, “The nation requires role models in leadership who can inspire youngsters”.

 
APJ Abdul Kalam Essay 6 (400 words)

Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam was a scientist who later became the 11th President of India and served the country from 2002 to 2007. He was the most respected person of the country as he contributed immensely to the country as a scientist and as a president. His contributions to the Indian Space Research Organization are unforgettable. Numerous projects were headed by him such as launch of the Rohini-1, Project Devil and Project Valiant, developing missiles (under missions Agni and Prithvi), etc. For his great contributions in improving the nuclear power of India, he is popularly known as the “Missile Man of India”. He has been honored with the highest civilian awards for his dedicated works. After completing his service to the government of India as President, he served the country as a visiting professor at various valued institutes and universities.

His Career and Contributions

He was born to the Jainulabdeen and Ashiamma on 15th of October in 1931. The financial conditions of his family was little poor so he started supporting his family financially in his early age. He started earning money to support his family however never gave up on his education. He completed his graduation in 1954 from Saint Joseph’s College, Tiruchirappalli and aerospace engineering from Madras Institute of Technology. After his graduation, he joined Aeronautical Development Establishment of Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) as a chief scientist however; soon he shifted to the Indian Space Research Organization as a project director of India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle. He also worked as a Chief Executive of Integrated Guided Missile Development Program which involved in simultaneous development of a quiver of missiles.

He also became the Chief Scientific Adviser to the Prime Minister from 1992 to 1999 and Secretary of Defence Research and Development Organization. He was called as the “Missile Man of India” after his successful contribution as the Chief Project Coordinator for Pokhran II nuclear tests. He was the first scientist who served as the President of India from 2002 to 2007 without any political background.

He wrote many inspirational books such as “India 2020”, “Ignited Minds”, “Mission India”, “The Luminous Sparks”, “Inspiring Thoughts”, etc. In order to beat the corruption in country he launched a mission for youths named “What Can I Give Movement”. He served as visiting professor in various universities and institutes of the country (Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad and Indore, etc), as Chancellor of Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology Thiruvananthapuram, JSS University (Mysore), Aerospace Engineering at Anna University (Chennai), etc. He has been awarded with the awards like Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan, Bharat Ratna, Indira Gandhi Award, Veer Savarkar Award, Ramanujan Award and many more.

 

Related Information:

Speech on APJ Abdul Kalam

Share:

Rate:12345
PreviousSri Aurobindo Essay
NextJawaharlal Nehru Essay
Related Posts
Ganesh Chaturthi Essay
Ganesh Chaturthi Essay

December 24, 2016
Animal Essay
Animal Essay

December 24, 2016
Save Girl Child Essay
Save Girl Child Essay

December 24, 2016
Essay on Holiday
Essay on Holiday

November 21, 2017
  
by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You May Like
This tempo-driver needs Rs. 1 lac for his baby Hemant’s heart surgeryKetto
Eight More Reasons to choose Royal Sundaram for your Enhanced Car Protection.Royal Sundaram Car Insurance
Sign up for AI tools, frameworks, trainings and moreThe Intel® AI Academy
Hotstar all sports pack @299/yearHotstar
Get the Best Homeopathy Treatment for your Hair fall.welcomecure.com
9 Factors That Determine Your Term Insurance PremiumCoverfox.com
Browse Essay

    Junk Food Essay
    Festivals Essays
    Save Girl Child Essay
    Essay on Disadvantages of Internet
    Essay on Flood
    Adventure Essay
    Essay on Corruption Free India
    Spring Season Essay
    Adult Education in India Essay
    Essay on Ethics

Featuring 10/248 of Essay

Find all
Sponsored Links 
From The Web
Only Child Of An Ola Cab Driver Needs 3 Surgeries To LiveImpact Guru
If you live in Haryana you're eligible for these secret cruise offersTop-Cruise-Deals
Attention Gurgaon Residents: Scared of Paying High Medical Bills?HDFC Life Insurance
Help little Shivraj live by donating for his heart surgery.Ketto
Do This Before Bed To Regrow Your Hair All Night Long.Nutralyfe ReGain
  
by Taboola 
Please provide your valuable suggestions to Help us Improve

Copyright © White Planet Technologies Pvt. Ltd.

Home | Contact us | About us
All the Content are strictly protected by COPYRIGHT LAW, copying or using any material in any form is a serious offense, and LEGAL action will be taken.
Categories:
Article | Environmental Issues | Essay | National Days | Festivals | General Awareness | Government | India | Paragraph | Quotes | Slogans | Social Awareness | Social issues | Best Speeches in English

Copyright White Planet Technologies Pvt. Ltd. | 2017 All Rights Reserved.

Ad 